Spores are found in select groups of bacteria. Which of the following statements describes the major advantage to the bacteria that possess these structures?
Spores are resistant to heat, cold, drying, most chemicals, and boiling
Spores allow an organism to better control its local environment
Spores allow bacteria to attach or adhere to host tissues
Organisms with spores have a more efficient exchange of genetic material
A
Some bacteria form thick-walled structures termed spores. These structures are formed during a process that makes a copy of a chromosome and encloses it with a thick protein coat. This spore is resistant to heat, cold, drying, most chemicals, and boiling. Spores can remain viable for many years in soil or dust.
Choose the binomial name that is correctly written.
Staphylococcus Aureus
Staphylococcus species aureus
Staphylococcus aureus
Staphylococcus aureus
C
Fermentation end-products are often used to aid in the identification of bacteria. Fermentation results in which of the following?
Conversion of glucose to pyruvate
Lactic acid, mixed acids, alcohols, CO2 production
CO2 and water
Specific teichoic acids
B
The exchange of cellular DNA between two living bacterial cells that involves an intercellular bridge is which of the following processes?
Transformation
Transduction
Plasmidization
Conjugation
D
Transduction is defined as which of the following?
The change of the bacterial genotypes through the exchange of DNA from one cell to another
An internal change in the original nucleotide sequence of a gene or genes within an organism’s genome
The process by which genetic elements such asplasmids and transposons excise from one genomic location and insert into another
A mechanism that is mediated by viruses, by which DNA from two bacteria may come together in one cell, thus allowing for recombination
D
A mordant that is applied after the primary stain to chemically bond the alkaline dye to the bacterial cell wall is which of the following?
Safranin
Crystal violet
Gram’s iodine
Gram’s decolorizer
C
Which of the following bacteria should be considered important pathogens when reading gram-stained smears of soft tissue abscess?
Streptococcus pneumoniae
Neisseria gonorrhoeae
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Staphylococcus aureus
D
The most appropriate interpretation of a gram stained smear of a sputum specimen would be
which of the following? (gram-stained smear,400.)
Few epithelial cells, many PMNs
Inadequate specimen, do not culture for anaerobes
Many cells, many gram-positive cocci in pairs and chains
More than 25 epithelial cells, probable oral contamination, suggest recollect
D
85% N2, 10% H2, 5% CO2 is the environmental condition that best suits which type of organism?
Aerobes
Anaerobes
Capnophiles
Microaerophiles
B
Which medium can be described as containing bile salts and dyes (bromothymol blue and acid fuchsin) to selectively slow the growth of most nonpathogenic gram negative bacilli found in the gastrointestinal tract and allow Salmonella spp. and Shigella spp. to grow?
Thayer-Martin
MacConkey
PEA (phenylethyl alcohol)
Hektoen
D
Choose the group of bacteria that is described as catalase-positive, gram-positive cocci that grow facultatively anaerobic and that form grapelike clusters.
Neisseria spp.
Rothia (Stomatococcus) spp.
Staphylococcus spp.
Micrococcus spp.
C
The slide coagulase test is a rapid screening test for the production of which of the following?
Clumping factor
Free coagulase
Extracellular coagulase
Catalase
A
The first identification test performed on a clinical isolate of gram-positive, catalase-positive cocci should be which of the following?
Penicillin test
Gram stain
Oxidase test
Coagulase test
D
The Staphylococcus sp. that is more likely to cause uncomplicated urinary tract infections in nonhospitalized hosts, especially sexually active young women, is which of the following?
Staphylococcus saprophyticus
Staphylococcus aureus
Staphylococcus epidermidis
Staphylococcus intermedius
A 
The toxic shock syndrome toxin-1 is an important virulence factor in staphylococcal disease. This toxin is classified into which of the following groups of toxins?
Cytolytic toxin
Leukocidin
Phospholipase
Enterotoxin
D
Mannitol salt agar is selective and differential for which group of organisms?
Staphylococcus spp.
Enterococcus spp.
Gram-positive cocci
Streptococcus spp.
A
Within 5 hours of returning home from lunch at your most favorite fast food restaurant you feel very sick and are vomiting. Which of the following is the most likely causative organism?
Staphylococcus aureus
Vibrio parahaemolyticus
Shigella sonnei
Escherichia coli
A
The bacterial species that can be described as susceptible to bile and optochin, a-hemolytic, a major cause of bacterial meningitis, and often carrying an antiphagocytic
capsule is which of the following?
Enterococcus faecalis
Streptococcus pneumoniae
Streptococcus pyogenes
Streptococcus agalactiae
B
The bacterial species that can be described as susceptible to penicillin and bacitracin, b-hemolytic, a major cause of bacterial pharyngitis, and often carrying an
antiphagocytic M protein is which of the following?
Enterococcus faecalis
Streptococcus pyogenes
Streptococcus agalactiae
Viridans streptococci
B
The bacterial species that can be described as able to hydrolyze hippurate, b-hemolytic, a major cause of neonatal meningitis and sepsis, and producer of the CAMP factor is which of the following?
Streptococcus pneumoniae
Streptococcus pyogenes
Streptococcus agalactiae
Viridans streptococci
C
The rapid antigen detection methods for throat swabs used for screening patients for streptococcal pharyngitis can be best described by which of the following statements?
They can be useful in quickly identifying most cases of streptococcal pharyngitis
They are a quick way to rule out streptococcal pharyngitis and avoid giving antibiotics when not needed
They are always very sensitive and specific for streptococcal pharyngitis
They are a quick and accurate way to diagnose bacterial and viral pharyngitis
A
The hemolysis of this Streptococcus spp. would best be described as which of the following?
b-Hemolysis
g-Hemolysis
a-Hemolysis
k-Hemolysis
C
Enterococcus spp. can be differentiated from most Streptococcus spp. by which of the following tests?
Growth in presence of 6.5% salt
Production of catalase
Production of coagulase
Growth on PEA medium
A
A pure culture of a b-hemolytic Streptococcus sp. recovered from a leg ulcer gave the following reactions:CAMP test=Negative Hippurate hydrolysis=Negative Bile esculin slant=No growth 6.5% Salt=No growth PYR=Negative Bacitracin=Resistant Optochin=Resistant SXT=Sensitive Which of the following is the most likely identification of this organism?
Streptococcus pyogenes
Streptococcus agalactiae
Enterococcus faecalis
Streptococcus sp., not groups A, B, or D
D
The ability to grow well at refrigerator temperatures is a characteristic of which of the following organisms?
Mycobacterium gordonae
Listeria monocytogenes
Erysipelothrix
Bacillus cereus
B
A catalase-positive, gram-positive bacillus that is not acid-fast, does not branch, and does not form spores could possibly belong to which group of bacteria?
Corynebacterium
Bacillus
Nocardia
Mycobacterium
A
A throat culture was taken from a 6-year-old boy with a gray pseudomembrane covering his oropharynx. A catalase-positive organism was isolated on cysteine-tellurite medium and subcultured to Tinsdale medium, where it grew as black colonies
with brown halos. A Gram stain was performed on these colonies. Which of the following cellular morphologies was most likely seen?
Gram-positive branching bacilli
Gram-positive cocci in short chains
Gram-positive bacilli in irregular clublike shape
Gram-positive cocci in grapelike clusters
C
A blood culture is positive for gram-positive bacilli that gave the following growth characteristics and biochemical reactions: MacConkey agar: No growth Catalase: Positive H2S on TSI: negative Growth of blood agar, nonhemolytic Nonmotile No spores These reactions are consistent with which of the following organisms?
Listeria spp.
Group B b Streptococcus
Erysipelothrix spp.
Corynebacterium spp.
D
A skin lesion was opened and drained in surgery. The culture was positive for a gram-positive bacillus, which gave the following growth characteristics and biochemical reactions: MacConkey agar: No growth Catalase: Negative H2S on TSI: Positive Growth of blood agar, nonhemolytic Nonmotile No spores These reactions are consistent with which of the following organisms?
Listeria spp.
Group B b Streptococcus
Erysipelothrix spp.
Corynebacterium spp.
C

30. Which of the following sets of tests provide the best
differentiation of Erysipelothrix from Listeria
monocytogenes?
a. Gram-stained smear, oxidase, and optochin
b. Gram-stained smear, catalase, and motility
c. CAMP test, hydrogen sulfide production, esculin
hydrolysis
d. Reverse CAMP, gram-stained smear, b-hemolysis
C

31. Neonatal meningitis is an uncommon but significant
disease. Two important causes of
this disease may be somewhat difficult to differentiate
on preliminary observation. Which of
the following sets of tests provide the best differentiation
of Streptococcus agalactiae from Listeria
monocytogenes?
a. Gram-stained smear, oxidase, and optochin
b. Gram-stained smear, catalase, and motility
c. CAMP test, hydrogen sulfide production,
b-hemolysis
d. Reverse CAMP, gram-stained smear, b-hemolysis
B

32. Which of the following tests is important as a part of
the genus identification or as part of a preliminary
identification but is not used as a confirmatory identification
of Bacillus anthracis?
a. Demonstration of a capsule
b. Demonstration of spore formation
c. Positive PCR test
d. Lysis of the strain by specific bacteriophages
B

33. Bacillus anthracis and Bacillus cereus can be differentiated
in the laboratory by a variety of different test
results. Which of the following sets of tests best differentiate
these two species?
a. Catalase and glucose fermentation
b. Motility and lecithinase production
c. Oxidase and b-hemolysis on5%sheep blood agar
d. Motility and b-hemolysis on5%sheep blood agar
D

34. Which of the following specimens would be best for
identifying Bacillus cereus as the cause of an outbreak
of food poisoning?
a. Blood
b. Rectal swabs
c. Stool samples
d. Food
D

35. A first morning sputum sample is received for acidfast
culture. The specimen is centrifuged, and the sediment
is inoculated on two Lowenstein-Jensen slants
that are incubated at 35C with 5% to 10% CO2.
After 1 week, the slants show abundant growth over
the entire surface. Stains reveal gram-negative bacilli.
Which of the following should be done to avoid this
problem?
a. Use a medium specifically designed for the
growth of AFB
b. Dilute out the sediment before inoculation with
saline
c. Decontaminate the specimen with NALC–
sodium hydroxide mixture
d. Incubate the tubes at room temperature to retard
bacterial growth
C

36. A patient recently arrived in the United States from
Africa presents with a long-standing cutaneous
lesion, which is cultured for bacteria, fungi, and
AFB. An AFB smear is made and is reported as positive
for AFB. After 8 weeks of culture on both nonselective
and selective AFB media, no colonies
appear. Which of the following organisms should
be suspected?
a. M. kansasii
b. M. tuberculosis
c. M. leprae
d. M. avium-intracellulare complex
C

37. The mycobacterial species that occur in humans and
belong to the M. tuberculosis complex include which
of the following?
a. M. tuberculosis, nontuberculous Mycobacteria,
M. bovis, and M. africanum
b. M. tuberculosis, M. gordonae, M. bovis BCG,
and M. africanum
c. M. tuberculosis, M. bovis, M. avium, and M.
intracellulare
d. M. tuberculosis, M. bovis, M. bovis BCG, and M.
africanum
D

38. The Runyon system of classification is based on
which of the following?
a. Colony and microscopic morphology
b. Biochemical characteristics
c. Growth rate and colonial pigmentation
d. All of the above are correct
C

39. In identification of mycobacterial isolates, the Tween
80 test involves which of the following?
a. An enzyme that is able to produce Tween
80 from certain ingredients found in the
medium
b. Lipase that is able to hydrolyze polyoxyethylene
sorbitan monooleate into oleic acid and polyoxyethylated
sorbitol
c. The metabolism of niacin to nicotinic acid by
enzymatic action
d. Testing the isolate for susceptibility to
Tween 80
B

40. The gram-negative bacillus that can be described as
oxidase-negative, nitrate-positive, indole-negative,
citrate-positive, methyl red–positive, ureasenegative,
and H2S-positive is most likely which of
the following?
a. Klebsiella pneumoniae
b. Salmonella enteritidis
c. Escherichia coli
d. Shigella sonnei
B

41. The swarming gram-negative bacillus that can be
described as oxidase-negative, nitrate-positive,
indole-negative, and H2S-positive is mostly likely
which of the following?
a. Proteus aerogenes
b. Proteus vulgaris
c. Proteus mirabilis
d. Escherichia coli
C

42. Profuse watery diarrhea (“rice water stools”), leading
to dramatic fluid loss, severe dehydration, and
hypotension that frequently leads to death, is the
hallmark of which toxin activity?
a. Cholera toxin
b. Enteric endotoxin
c. Shiga toxin
d. Toxin A
A

43. The selective medium thiosulfate citrate bile
salts sucrose (TCBS) agar is especially formulated
for isolating which pathogen from stool
cultures?
a. Vibrio spp.
b. Salmonella spp.
c. Shigella spp.
d. Plesiomonas spp.
A

44. The majority of human infections with Campylobacter
spp. are caused by which of the
following?
a. Direct contact with carriers of the bacterium
b. Contamination of food, milk, or water with
animal feces
c. Multiplication of the organism in food products
d. Direct contact with persons infected with the
bacterium
B

45. In the test for urease production, the presence of
the enzyme hydrolyzes urea to which of the
following?
a. Ammonia and CO2
b. Putrescine
c. Amines and CO2
d. Amines and water
A

46. The bacterial isolate on XLD agar shown in the
image was isolated from a routine stool culture.
Which of the following genera and species is the most
likely identification for this organism?
a. Klebsiella pneumoniae
b. Salmonella enteritidis
c. Shigella sonnei
d. Serratia marcescens
B

47. The bacterial isolate shown below on CIN agar was
isolated from a routine stool culture. Which of the
following genera and species is the most likely identification
for this organism?
a. Shigella flexneri
b. Salmonella enteritidis
c. Yersinia enterocolitica
d. Escherichia coli
C

48. Decarboxylation of the amino acids lysine, ornithine,
and arginine results in the formation of which of the
following products?
a. Ammonia
b. Urea
c. CO2
d. Amines
D

49. An organism was inoculated into a TSI tube and gave
the following reactions:
Alkaline slant
Acid butt
H2S: Not produced
Gas: Not produced
The organism is most likely which of the following?
a. Klebsiella sp.
b. Shigella sp.
c. Salmonella sp.
d. Escherichia coli
B

50. The best specimen for the isolation of Bordetella pertussis
is which of the following?
a. Throat swabs
b. Sputum
c. Nasopharyngeal aspirates
d. Anterior nose swab
C

51. Organisms belonging to the genus Brucella are best
described by which of the following statements?
a. Gram-positive diplococci
b. Gram-positive diphtheroid bacilli
c. Gram-negative coccobacilli
d. Gram-negative bacilli
C

52. Serum samples collected on a patient with pneumonia
demonstrate a rising antibody titer to Legionella.
A bronchoalveolar lavage sample was collected and
revealed a positive DFA test for Legionella, but no
organisms were recovered from this specimen when
it was cultured on the appropriate medium and incubated
for 2 days at 35 C in CO2. Which of the following
is the best explanation?
a. Culture was not incubated long enough
b. Antibody titer
c. Specimen was incubated at the wrong temperature
d. Positive DFA test result is a false positive
A

53. Of the following media, which provides the NAD
necessary for the growth of Haemophilus spp.?
a. 5% sheep blood agar
b. Brain heart infusion agar
c. Chocolate agar
d. Nutrient agar
C

54. Performing the factor requirement test for Haemophilus
involves which of the following processes?
a. Inoculation of unsupplemented media with a light
suspension of the organism and placement of factors
X and V disks on the agar surface
b. Inoculation of liquid media, unsupplemented and
supplemented with factors X and V
c. Detecting the presence of enzymes that convert aaminolevulinic
acid (ALA) into porphyrins
d. Growth of the organism in the presence of bacterial
species that produce X and V factors as metabolic
by-products
A

55. Of the asaccharolytic, oxidase-positive bacilli that do
not grow on MacConkey agar, which one is among
the HACEK group of bacteria known to cause subacute
bacterial endocarditis?
a. Eikenella corrodens
b. Weeksella virosa
c. Pseudomonas maltophilia
d. Sphingomonas paucimobilis
A

56. Which of the following statements best completes the
following thought: Presumptive identification of an
oxidase-positive, gram-negative diplococcus on
Thayer-Martin medium from genital sites of a 6-
year-old female as Neisseria gonorrhoeae?
a. Provides the physician with quick and reliable
results at minimal cost
b. May sometimes be incorrect, and a repeat culture
should be collected
c. May sometimes be incorrect and should not be
reported until confirmed
d. Should be done only when venereal disease is
suspected
C

57. The bacterial species that can be described as oxidasepositive,
glucose-positive, maltose-positive, sucrosenegative,
lactose-negative, and a major cause of bacterial
meningitis is most likely which of the following?
a. Neisseria meningitidis
b. Neisseria gonorrhoeae
c. Streptococcus pneumoniae
d. Viridans group Streptococcus
A

58. The bacterial species that can be described as oxidasepositive,
glucose-positive, maltose-negative, sucrosenegative,
lactose-negative, and a major cause of
venereal disease is most likely which of the following?
a. Neisseria meningitidis
b. Neisseria gonorrhoeae
c. Streptococcus pyogenes
d. Viridans group Streptococcus
B

59. Organisms belonging to the genus Neisseria are
described as which of the following?
a. Gram-positive diplococci
b. Gram-negative diplococci
c. Gram-negative coccobacilli
d. Gram-negative bacilli
B

60. The following were observed when the Hugh-Leifson
oxidative-fermentative test was performed on a bacterial
isolate. Which of the options below best
describes the organism’s reaction?
a. Oxidizer
b. Nonoxidizer
c. Fermenter
d. Nonviable
A

61. The oxidase test is a critical test when attempting to
identify nonfermenting gram-negative bacilli. This
test is designed to determine the presence of which
of the following?
a. b-Galactosidase
b. Cytochrome oxidase
c. Glucose oxidizing enzymes
d. Oxygen
B

62. The blood culture of a patient with a central venous
catheter yielded a gram-negative bacillus growing on
MacConkey agar with the following reactions:
Oxidase=Negative Motility=Positive
Glucose oxidative-fermentative
	open=Positive (weak)
Maltose oxidative-fermentative
	open=Positive (strong)
Catalase=Positive Esculin hydrolysis=Positive
Which of the following is the most likely identification
of this organism?
a. Burkholderia cepacia
b. Pseudomonas aeruginosa
c. Acinetobacter baumannii
d. Stenotrophomonas maltophilia
D

63. Which organism is associated with the disease
Melioidosis?
a. Burkholderia ralstonia
b. Burkholderia pseudomallei
c. Burkholderia mallei
d. Burkholderia cepacia
B

64. Differentiation of Stenotrophomonas maltophilia
and Burkholderia cepacia is best accomplished by
which of the following tests?
a. Oxidase test
b. Maltose and glucose medium
c. Tyrosine-enriched heart infusion agar
d. Growth at 42 C
A

65. The respiratory culture of a patient with cystic fibrosis
yielded a gram-negative bacillus with the following
reactions:
Oxidase=Positive Motility=Positive
Glucose oxidative-fermentative
open=Positive
Gelatin
hydrolysis=Positive
Soluble green pigment on TSA slant Arginine
dihydrolase=Positive
Growth at 42C=positive
Which of the following is the most likely identification
of this organism?
a. Burkholderia cepacia
b. Pseudomonas aeruginosa
c. Acinetobacter baumannii
d. Stenotrophomonas xylosoxidans
B

66. Which test group best differentiates Acinetobacter
baumannii from Pseudomonas aeruginosa?
a. Oxidase, motility, nitrate reduction
Oxidation Fermentation
neg neg
b. Growth on MacConkey agar, catalase, nitrate
reduction
c. Growth on blood agar, oxidase, catalase
d. TSI, urea, motility
A

67. Which of the following sets of results represent the
most common reactions for Moraxella catarrhalis
when tested in CTA sugar tubes?
a. Glucose: Negative; Maltose: Negative; Lactose:
Negative; Sucrose: Negative
b. Glucose: Positive; Maltose: Negative; Lactose:
Negative; Sucrose: Negative
c. Glucose: Positive; Maltose: Positive; Lactose:
Negative; Sucrose: Negative
d. Glucose: Positive; Maltose: Negative; Lactose:
Positive; Sucrose: Negative
A

68. A soluble, bright green pigment can be produced by
Pseudomonas aeruginosa. This pigment is known as
which of the following?
a. Pyoverdin
b. Pyocyanin
c. Pyorubin
d. Pyophena
B

69. A small portion of a colony of a gram-negative bacilli
was smeared onto a filter paper test system. One percent
tetramethyl-p-phenylenediamine dihydrochloride
was added. At 10 seconds, a dark purple color
developed where the colony was added to the paper.
Which of the following statements best describes the
test results?
a. Positive indole test
b. Positive oxidase test
c. Positive urea test
d. Positive esculin test
B

70. Characteristics of Mycoplasma and Ureaplasma
include which of the following?
a. They exhibit the presence of a thin gram-positive–
like cell wall with no cell membrane
b. They demonstrate rapid growth on MacConkey
agar, slow growth on basic nutrient agar
c. The have only a cell membrane with no cell wall
d. They exhibit rapid growth on MacConkey
medium and routine blood agar plates
C

71. Which of the following is a cause of nongonococcal
urethritis?
a. Mycoplasma hominis
b. Mycoplasma pneumoniae
c. Ureaplasma urealyticum
d. Mycoplasma orale
C

72. Which of the following is the most sensitive method
for the diagnosis of Chlamydia trachomatis?
a. Cytology
b. Culture
c. Nucleic acid amplification
d. Serologic testing
C

73. An 8-year-old boy from Oklahoma presents with a
3-day history of fever, headache, and muscle aches.
Arash first noted thismorning on his ankles andwrists
has now spread to include his trunk. The medical team
has identified a list of possible organisms. Which of
the following is the most likely cause of this infection?
a. Q Fever
b. Ehrlichiosis
c. Rocky Mountain spotted fever
d. Cat scratch disease
C

74. Which of the following is a stage of venereal syphilis
that is characterized by the appearance of a chancre?
a. Primary syphilis
b. Secondary syphilis
c. Late syphilis
d. Tertiary syphilis
A

75. Which of the following is a nontreponemal serologic
test in which soluble antigen particles are coalesced
to form larger particles that are visible as clumps
when they are aggregated by antibody?
a. Nontreponemal flocculation (NTF)
b. Fluorescent treponemal antibody absorption
(FTA-ABS) test
c. Venereal Disease Research Laboratory
(VDRL) test
d. T. pallidum particle agglutination (TP-PA) test
C

76. A patient in a rural area of Massachusetts had a 5-cm
red rash with an expanding margin on his back. The
lesion was obvious for approximately a month and
then resolved. Several weeks later, the patient experienced
episodes of partial facial paralysis and painful
joints.Which of the following is the most likely infectious
agent in this case?
a. Borrelia hermsii
b. Borrelia burgdorferi
c. Leptospira interrogans
d. Spirillum minor
B

77. A 16-year-old, sexually active patient comes to his
physician’s office because of a circular, 1-cm lesion
in the groin area which is ulcerated but not painful.
A rapid plasma reagin test is performed and is reactive
with a titer of 1:16. Culture and gram-stain
smear results from an exudate of the lesion are negative.
Which of the following is the most likely cause
of this lesion?
a. Chlamydia trachomatis
b. Neisseria gonorrhoeae
c. Treponema pallidum
d. Haemophilus ducreyi
C

78. The gram-stained smear shows an organism isolated
from a blood culture after bowel surgery. Under
anaerobic incubation conditions, it grew as smooth,
white, nonhemolytic colonies. The organism was not
inhibited by colistin, kanamycin, or vancomycin and
hydrolyzed esculin. The most likely identification of
this isolate is which of the following?
a. Fusobacterium nucleatum
b. Fusobacterium varium
c. Bacteroides fragilis
d. Prevotella melaninogenica
C

79. Pseudomembranous colitis caused by Clostridium
difficile is best confirmed by which of the following
laboratory findings?
a. Presence of the toxin in stool
b. Isolation of C. difficile from stool
c. Gas production in thioglycolate media
d. Gram stain of stool showing many gram-positive
bacilli
A

80. Lecithinase production, double zone hemolysis on
sheep blood agar, and gram-stained morphology
are all useful criteria in the identification of which
of the following?
a. Clostridium perfringens
b. Streptococcus agalactiae
c. Escherichia coli
d. Clostridium tetani
A

81. When activating a hydrogen and carbon dioxide generator
system used for creating an anaerobic atmosphere,
which of the following is an indication that
the catalyst and generator envelope are functioning
properly?
a. A decrease in temperature of the jar
b. Bubble formation on the surface of the plates
c. A change in color of the methylene blue indicator
d. The formation of a visible cloud of gas
C

82. In a clinical specimen, the presence of sulfur granules
strongly indicates the presence of which anaerobic
bacterium?
a. Bacteroides fragilis
b. Actinomyces spp.
c. Fusobacterium nucleatum
d. Clostridium tetani
B

83. Which of the following are a common element
between using the E test and agar disk diffusion
(Kirby-Bauer) for antimicrobial susceptibility
testing?
a. Both establish an antibiotic gradient in agar
b. Both create a circular zone of bacterial
inhibition
c. Expression of results is by MIC for both
d. The cost of the test is similar per drug
A

84. Which of the following clinical indications would
most benefit from having quantitative (MIC) testing
rather than qualitative (Sensitive, Intermediate,
Resistant catagories) data from the laboratory?
a. Urinary tract infection
b. Bacterial meningitis
c. Pneumonia caused by Mycoplasma
d. Streptococcal pharyngitis
B

85. When performing antimicrobial susceptibility testing,
the following definition of the minimum inhibitory
concentration (MIC) is correct:
a. The highest concentration of an antibiotic in a
dilution series that inhibits growth
b. The lowest concentration of an antibiotic in a
dilution series that inhibits growth
c. The lowest concentration of an antibiotic in a
dilution series that kills the bacteria
d. The lowest concentration of the antibiotic obtainable
in the patient without toxicity
B

86. In comparing quantitative MIC dilution testing to
qualitative agar disk diffusion testing, the higher
the MIC of the drug for that organism:
a. The smaller is the zone of inhibition
b. The more susceptible the organism will appear on
disk diffusion
c. The larger is the zone of inhibition
d. The more toxic is the drug to the patient
C

87. In a quality control (QC) procedure on a new
batch of Mueller-Hinton plates using a standard
QC stock strain of Staphylococcus aureus, the disk
inhibition zone sizes for three of the drugs tested
were too small and fell below the expectedQC range.
Which of the following is the most likely reason for
this observation?
a. These three antibiotic disks were outdated and
had lost potency
b. These three disks were faulty in that the antibiotic
content was too high
c. Bacterial suspension of Staphylococcus was probably
contaminated with another organism
d. The plates received insufficient incubation time
A

88. Which of the following definitions best fit the term
urethritis?
a. Infection and or inflammation of the terminal
portion of the lower urinary tract
b. The isolation of a specified quantitative count of
bacteria in an appropriately collected urine specimen
obtained from a person without symptoms
or signs of urinary infection
c. Dysuria, frequency, and urgency but yielding fewer
organisms than 105 colony-forming units of bacteria
per milliliter (CFU/mL) urine on culture
d. Inflammation of the kidney parenchyma, calices
(cup-shaped division of the renal pelvis), and
pelvis
A

89. The organism most commonly associated with otitis
media infections is associated with which of the following
positive test results?
a. Coagulase
b. VP
c. Optochin
d. Bacitracin
C

90. Which organism is most often responsible for
impetigo?
a. Staphylococcus epidermidis
b. Streptococcus pyogenes
c. Enterococcus faecalis
d. Streptococcus agalactiae
B

91. How do staphylococci spread so easily when infecting
the skin?
a. They produce hyaluronidase, which hydrolyzes
hyaluronic acid present in the intracellular
ground substance that makes up connective tissue
b. They produce lipase, which melts the fat under
the skin, making it easier to spread
c. The hemolysins kill the white and red blood cells;
then the protease liquefies the skin protein, allowing
easy penetration for the bacteria
d. All of the above
A

Routine culture media for use with a specimen of cerebrospinal fluid should include which of the following sets of media?
5% sheep blood agar, Lowenstein Jensen agar, 7H9 agar
5% sheep blood agar, thioglycolate broth
5% sheep blood agar, MacConkey agar,Sabourad dextrose agar
5% sheep blood agar, chocolate agar, thioglycolate broth
D
A college student is examined at the emergency department; he is disoriented with a fever, intense headache, stiff neck, vomiting, and sensitivity to light. His friends say that he has been sick for about 2 days and that his condition worsened over the last 3 hours. The physician does a complete blood count (CBC) and electrolytes. The electrolytes are normal, but the patient’s white blood count (WBC) is 12,000 cells/L. What test should the doctor order next?
Urine culture
Stool culture
Cerebrospinal fluid Gram stain and culture
Blood culture
C
What cells are found in bacterial vaginosis?
Clue cells
Lymphocytes
Macrophages
Squamous epithelial cells
A
Which of the following terms is used to describe an increase of lymphocytes and other mononuclear cells (pleocytosis) in the cerebrospinal fluid and negative bacterial and fungal cultures?
Meningoencephalitis
Aseptic meningitis
Encephalitis
Meningitis
B
The culture of which sample routinely uses quantitation or the counting of bacterial cells present to assist in the interpretation?
Blood
Sputum
Urine
Abscess
C
Gram staining and reading a glass slide with a mixed smear of Staphylococcus and Escherichia coli along with each Gram staining run of specimens examined within the microbiology laboratory that day is an example of which of the following?
Quality assurance (QA) activity
Quality control (QC) activity
National regulatory activity
Office of Safety and Health Administration activity
B
Tracking the rate of skin organism contamination among a laboratory’s blood culture results on a monthly basis and introducing specific training to phlebotomists when rates exceed the norm would be an example of which of the following?
Good laboratory practice
Quality control
Universal standards
Quality assurance
D
Which of the following statements best defines “infectious substances”?
Articles or substances capable of posing a risk to safety
Substances known or reasonably expected to contain pathogens
Patient samples containing bacteria
Samples with class 3 pathogens
B
Which of the following is an example of an inappropriate specimen or condition that would warrant rejection for microbiology culture?
A nonsterile container for a stool culture
A swab of a skin and soft tissue infection
A tissue sample for anaerobic culture
A 24-hour urine sample for bacteriology culture
D